---
title: Working with the API
date: 2014-09-19
---

In this module, you will learn to:

1. read API documentation to understand the possible queries
2. limit search results with different variables

Now that we've learned to make a simple request using the DPyLA library, let's spend some time exploring the different kinds of requests we can make. 

### Constructing API Requests

Open up the [documentation for the DPyLA library](https://github.com/bibliotechy/DPyLA) and for the [DPLA API](http://dp.la/info/developers/codex/requests/).

First, let's get some contextual data about the search results. In the Python Interactive Interpreter, run <span class="command">result.count</span>. This tells you how many total items fit the search term. 

Now run <span class="command">result.limit</span>. This tells you how many results the API returned. By default, the API will give you 10 results at a time. Look at the DPyLA documentation and try to construct a request that gets you 50 results.

You can also limit your search results with a variety of variables. 

For example, you can be more specific with your search, such as limiting your query to cooking in the title of an item. 

    result = dpla.search("cooking", fields=["sourceResource.title", "sourceResource.date", "sourceResource.spatial"])

To see your updated search results, run:

    result.items[0:3]

You can also sort by geography:

	result = dpla.search("cooking", fields=["sourceResource.title", "sourceResource.date", "sourceResource.spatial"], spatial_facet=[37.7577,-122.4376])

To see the results, run:

    result.items[0:3]

These types of commands help you focus the search results so that you have less noisy data -- so that more of the data fits the questions you want to ask.

Work with the documentation and your table to construct some more targeted queries. 

- How would you narrow the data for different questions? What variables would you use?
- Do you see any additional strengths or weaknesses with the data when trying to limit your search results?

### Group Challenge

How would you save one of your limited searches to a different variable? How then would you show the items?



<span class="left">[Previous Module](module03.html)</span>
<span class="right">[Next Module](module05.html)</span>